To analyze the project and the issue you're encountering in Replit where content is missing and the page freezes during navigation (specifically when navigating to the Contact page with the animation running), with an indication that the problem relates to Replit's Janeway container/proxy configuration interacting with your app's compiled output (Vite/React), I need to gather more details about the project files and setup.

Could you please specify or share relevant parts of your project, such as:

The code or configuration related to routing and animations (React components and config files).

The build or deployment configuration files, especially related to Vite and any server/proxy settings.

Any error logs or console outputs that appear when the freeze happens.

This information will help diagnose if the issue is with code, configuration, or deployment/runtime environment conflicts.

If you want, I can start by checking your project files for routing setup and animation handling. Please confirm or provide specific files to review.

Skip to content
EmilyBakesCakes
Republish
Files
Commands
Packager files
Config files

npm run server:dev
Ask Agent…
36m • 37 minutes ago
npm run dev
Ask Agent…
10m • 10 minutes ago
Improve toast component accessibility and behavior for better user feedback
Agent 3
Show previous events
9 messages & 21 actions
I still see the syntax error. Let me check the file structure around the problem area more carefully:
35 minutes ago
Fix UI freeze issue in customer details modal and improve layout
Rollback here
Changes
Preview
7 minutes of work
check and ensure issue is fixed
35 minutes ago
7 messages & 25 actions
I'll perform a comprehensive verification following the mandatory checklist to ensure the freeze issue is completely resolved. ## 🔍 PHASE 1: Mandatory Diagnostics and Analysis
Move pop on in customer screen to middle of the sreen and enable scrolling
34 minutes ago
5 messages & 12 actions
I'll fix the customer detail modal positioning and scrolling for you.
31 minutes ago
Center customer details popup and enable scrolling
Rollback here
Changes
Preview
2 minutes of work
Your deployment attempt had the following errors:
The run command is incomplete and missing the port number after '--port' flag
No port is configured with externalPort = 80 in the .replit file for Autoscale deployment
Autoscale deployments require HTTP traffic to be routed to external port 80, but the application is configured to use port 5000
26 minutes ago
6 messages & 12 actions
I'll help you fix the deployment configuration. Let me search the Replit documentation for Autoscale deployment requirements and check your current configuration.
I'm still having similar issues. When I press open tab the website opens this url in a new tab. https://a721f5a2-26f7-49c5-8928-423f82d41ffd-00-26tii9ec4y849.janeway.replit.dev/ After it loads, the screen is scrollable but the conent is not visible, only things like main heading, build your dream cake button, certain components of carousel, and certian lines. The menu, and other tabs are not clicking, clickable, or responding at all these screenshots show that, after a minuter or two the page will say unrespponsive and fail toload. All whilst never actually fully loading.
14 minutes ago
7 messages & 59 actions
I can see this is a critical rendering issue on the external URL. Let me diagnose and fix this systematically.
7 minutes ago
Improve website loading speed and fix external URL issues
Rollback here
Changes
Preview
7 minutes of work
The issue persists
4 minutes ago
Decided on investigation strategy
I'll investigate what's still happening with the external URL. Let me check the current state and browser logs to diagnose the issue.
Checked console logs
Determined next steps for clarification
I can see the app is loading successfully in the Replit preview (console shows "🌐 Emily Bakes Cakes - Loaded" with no errors). However, I need to understand what's happening on the external URL you're accessing.
Can you help me understand what you're experiencing when you open the external URL (https://a721f5a2-26f7-49c5-8928-423f82d41ffd-00-26tii9ec4y849.janeway.replit.dev/) in a new tab?
Please let me know:
What content is visible? (Just the header? Only some text? Blank screen?)
What's missing? (Images? Colors/styling? Entire sections?)
Are the menu buttons clickable? (Can you navigate to Shop, Builder, etc.?)
Does the browser show any error in the console?
Right-click → Inspect → Console tab
Look for red error messages or yellow warnings
Does it still freeze/become unresponsive?
This information will help me pinpoint exactly what's still broken so I can create the right fix!
27 seconds of work
Scroll to latest
Working..
Stop
content was still missing, but i tested, by trying to navigate to Contact page, while the animation was moving and page loading up. it froze you can see that in the scrrenshot f the AI agent completes the steps above and the issue still persists, the problem is almost certainly related to the Replit Janeway container/proxy configuration interacting with your app's compiled output (Vite/React).
Plan
BuildPlanEdit

You are experiencing an issue in your Replit-hosted Vite/React project where content is missing, navigation is unresponsive, and the page can freeze—eventually leading to an unresponsive tab, especially on the external Janeway URL. This is a known problem for Vite/React apps on Replit, particularly when using the Janeway proxy or when configuration settings (like ports or proxies) are misaligned between your Vite build and Replit's container environment.​

Common Causes and Diagnostics
Port and .replit Configuration

If the port used by your app internally (e.g., 3000, 5000, or another) does not match the port exposed via externalPort = 80 in your .replit config, the app may appear to load some static resources but fail to mount React, resulting in blank/missing content and unresponsive navigation. Make sure your run command, internal port, and externalPort match what's required by Replit Autoscale deployment.​​

Vite Proxy and Path Issues

If you are using Vite's proxy feature and endpoint requests are not routed properly due to path, target, or CORS config issues, this can lead to fetch errors, blank screens, or incomplete renders. Double-check your vite.config.js to ensure proxy paths use relative URLs (/api/... rather than hardcoded domains), and that backend responses have permissive CORS headers.​

Heavy Components or UseEffect Delays

Rendering-heavy or animation-heavy components in React can cause the browser to hang, especially if animations are ongoing during route transitions. If a useEffect hook or a data-fetch blocks the main thread, any navigation during an animation can trigger a freeze.​

Janeway/Preview Bug

There have been multiple reports where Replit's Janeway proxy breaks routing or fails to serve compiled assets properly for React apps, resulting in blank previews or frozen UI—while the app works fine outside Replit. Sometimes, the problem only appears on the public/external URL, not on the internal preview.​

Steps to Fix
Check/Re-align .replit and Vite Config

Ensure your .replit file contains correct port mapping, such as:

text
[env]
PORT=3000

[run]
command = "npm run dev -- --port 3000"
And:

text
[http]
externalPort = 80
Adjust the internal run port and externalPort to match what Replit expects for open access.​​

Optimize Heavy/Animated Components

Audit React pages for heavy computations, large lists, or blocking code in useEffect that could stall rendering during transitions. Try disabling animations and see if navigation freezes persist.​

Use Relative Paths in Fetch/Proxy

Always use relative URLs (/api/...) for frontend-backend data fetches to guarantee proxy rules apply. Hardcoded domains can bypass Vite proxying and break in containerized environments.​

Test Outside Replit

If possible, run the build locally or deploy to Vercel/Netlify to determine if the issue is unique to Replit's environment.​

Review Error Logs

Check your browser developer console for red errors or CORS warnings. Network tab can reveal requests failing to load.​

Restart/Reset

Occasionally, Replit's proxy/cache can become corrupted during heavy development. Restart the repl and clear your browser cache.​

Key Takeaways
This issue is likely caused by a misconfiguration between your React/Vite app's server settings (including port and proxy rules) and Replit's Janeway proxy. Animation or heavy component rendering during navigation can worsen freezes. Testing your configuration as outlined and reviewing heavy page/component logic should help you resolve or narrow down the root cause.​​

Would you like specific guidance on updating your .replit or vite.config.js file, or on how to debug which React component might be causing the freeze?

Related

Diagnose proxy configuration issues affecting Vite with React on Janeway

Analyze steps to configure Vite proxy correctly in a deployed React app

Investigate common causes of freezing and unresponsiveness in Vite React apps

Check Replit Janeway container logs for proxy or routing errors

Test alternative dev server ports and proxy rewrite rules in Vite config